and welcome back to a fresh episode of
the business growth show I'm your host
Sam Dunning co-owner over at
webchoiceuk.com and if you haven't yet
check out my weekly email where I share
actual website and B2B marketing tips
useful podcasts goodies resources and
more to kick off your week with a bang
why not give it a shot over at
businessgrowth dot emails so joining me
today we've got Giovanna Ziegler
giovanna's a head of marketing over a
fantastic welcome to the show how you
doing
it's a pleasure to be here
thank you
looking forward to it so Giovanna we're
gonna be talking exactly how you can
build a marketing engine from scratch
so let's get stuck into it let's jump
into the show first and foremost you're
on how much of a priority do you believe
that marketing should be when we compare
to other departments let's say things
like sales maybe product development
maybe Finance like there's so much that
makes up a business right how much
importance is should we place on
marketing well
um I'm a little biased of course
um but uh you know if you want your
product to sell
um you should make marketing a priority
there is not a way around it I mean
marketing is a is just a fundamental
pillar of your business
um it's like uh if if you if you write a
blog and you don't Market it nobody's
you know it doesn't matter how good the
blog is going to be nobody's going to
read it if you write a book you know no
matter how good the book is or if you
you know if you make a movie no matter
how good the movie is if you don't mark
it well you know simply it won't work so
um these are these are things to be
discussed from the beginning from day
one
uh as a marketing as a marketing person
as a marketing professional directly
with with this c-suite you know with
with your CEO with what what's the
what's the goal of the company where do
you want to go what do you want to
achieve what are the kpis you know
discussing this
um if if marketing is not a priority
there's something weird behind it
there's something going on over there
um but yeah you know this is this is
fundamental for every business no matter
if it's B2B b2c if it's um you know the
most basic things
um I've seen companies doing sales
before marketing and it doesn't work I'm
sorry to say you know it doesn't matter
your your type of business you need to
you need to show off
there isn't much way around it yeah
I want to look at this from two angles I
know you're going to share with us a
strategy of how you can set up a
marketing engine from scratch because
you've done it before yeah before we
before we dive into that I want to look
at this from triangle so
initially I I agree with you but I want
to play Devil's Advocate too
um more interesting so I often say say
similar to what you've just shared there
Giovanna so a lot of like prospects a
lot of clients come to us
um
wanting websites and often one of the
first thing I'll ask especially if
they're a relatively new or startup
businesses
well that's all good and well but what
are you gonna dedicate to actually
Market the thing
um because I think a lot of people just
believe that even today that if you
build it they're going to come which is
couldn't be couldn't be more far from
the truth especially with websites which
is pretty much most B2B companies or
most tech companies their Foundation
really it's the thing that's going to
drive the demo requests or the consult
requests or people raising their hand to
speak to sales
um and it's like well yeah you can build
an awesome All-Seeing dancing website
but if no one can find it and whether
that's on Google search whether that's
social whether that's another channel
that they hang out whatever it may be
then it's almost useless right
um some marketing is that Foundation
that's actually going to build That
Brand Build That awareness and drive
people to the thing you want them to
convert on
I mean first of all I love
um The Devil's Advocate
um because I think if you're not if
you're not
um questioning you're doing something
wrong
um
if you're not questioning you are not
trying enough and you're not uh putting
putting data into perspective you know
we need to always test and balance
things
um but I you know I know you're building
your question but you're kind of giving
me an advantage here with your with your
own uh with your own inquest because
truth is even if you're just doing a
website you still need marketing people
behind it and not just for people to
find you because you know SEO is also
marketing but in order to convert you
know you want people to convert to a
demo
um good content a good brand uh
Authority and every every little aspect
of marketing that you can put inside to
uh to help your your conversion you know
this is all marketing
um I've I've seen you know like
basically I helped three to four
companies to to raise their marketing
department from scratch when I say
companies they're like very successful
companies nowadays most of them B2B most
of them had a
prototype of website I cannot call it a
website but a website that it was not so
embarrassing is show
um
taking it from a data perspective after
I joined and after I did the writing
modifications you see that they only had
a business card and after you add
marketing to this equation that's how
you generate what you actually wanted
with the website
you know so everything is kind of
marketing I'm sorry this is a tough one
but before we go to my devil's advocate
question when you say before we add
marketing what is your definition of
marketing in that case like a startups
website
oh that's a great question because
marketing has a variety of departments
and um qualities that people don't
um often mention but
um from from a keywords research to
understand your audience
desires uh to a way of
um of direct the copy of the website
um and to also you know always put into
perspective a b tests to understand what
are the best call to action what are the
best uh headlines you can put what are
the best slogans you can put this is a
mix of of demand generation in brand
you know uh and many Cool brand you can
call product marketing so you can also
understand other aspects of the brand
but it's brand in the main generation
there is
you know whenever you have data in order
to to prove for example what convert
converts the most it doesn't matter even
though it involves copy involves the
creative part involves the brand you
still need the demand generation Parts
in order to understand what actually
works because we don't want it to be
a common problem in marketing which is
uh opinion over data you know
um so so these are my my points into
transforming something you have to show
which is like a page a website to a
function uh
um important part of uh your funnel of
you know to generate conversions
yeah yeah I think as as as I ramble on
about on many of the guest episodes and
solo episodes that we run on the show
like I strongly agree with you in terms
of not going with your own opinion but
actually going with data or what the
market what your buyers what your
prospective people the people that
actually going to pay for your product
your service your software yeah what
they care about
um and what they've proven to care about
over kind of what you think personally
is going to work because ultimately
they're the ones buying your stuff but
let's get back to flipping this so you
mentioned one of the things the most
important thing but surely if you're a
startup and let's say you've built a new
product maybe it's I don't know some
kind of tech maybe software maybe it's a
CRM maybe it's something else
but surely you've got a proof concept
first sure you've actually got to get
some prospects that are willing to part
with their cash
so you can prove there's product Market
fit before you then invest into
marketing whether that's your own
Department outsourced whatever
yeah that's for sure
um it's again I don't think it
contradicts the fact that marketing is a
priority I'm not saying it's a priority
number one I still think and and people
might kill me for saying that as a
marketing person but I still think
product should be the biggest priority
I'm sorry like uh after years working
with you know working seeing Consulting
working as a consultant for uh b2ba so
many many companies that they just
existed because they wanted to raise
money and they just you know like I
don't I don't I don't love this
um this new business model
um so I do admire a good product I think
you know
um there's so much so much space to to
different things for a variety of things
that can actually improve people's lives
um and people's works work lives not
just personal
um but after product for sure it's I
would say it's marketing but
you know as a marketing person you don't
want to Advocate them
I think yeah I think uh after you know
if you have the privilege of course to
to choose what you're going to Advocate
what you're going to to to promote
um nobody wants to you know use your
skills for the
use your power for for the evil
good stuff good stuff well we've looked
at both sides of it so right we've built
up to it well we've talked about kind of
why marketing is important but I really
want to know kind of your
recommendations Giovanna in terms of
what are some other steps that need to
happen when we are building a marketing
department for a startup a new company
whatever it may be so what are some of
the very first things let's say we've
built a great product maybe we can say
we're in the B2B Tech spaces I know
that's way lots of perhaps we've built a
break product we've proved that that's
it's got some kind of product Market fit
um now what are some of the first
considerations when it comes to actually
building our marketing engine what
should we consider first
that's a great question and I have a
friend she's a she's a CSO and she
taught me I admire her very much and she
taught me uh you know for for her career
is very important to to have checklists
and I do I do have some checklists for
marketing as well
um before even you do plan a marketing
plan you know make sure you you have
a uh CRM and track everything you do
um you know there is a very specific
technicality between uh is installing
tracks and pixels and everything you can
so uh nothing that you do from that will
be lost would be you know a data that
you lose
um right so this way you can you can
have understanding of your business from
day Zero like not even day one
um but you know um
one thing that I say a lot and I think
it goes for every professional it
doesn't matter if it's Marketing sales
product whatever uh the communication
and align
um expectations with management and
um company goals uh you know if you if
you have your kpi set
your budget Set uh you have to
understand and to respect two things
product uh limitations and capabilities
again you don't want to you don't want
to falsely Advocate what you have and to
the limitations with your budget and
your persona you know
um I work with B2B mostly and it gets
expensive more expensive by the minute
um and sometimes you were hired and your
CEO comes to you and say like we need to
have whatever 100 clients in one year
and we have a hundred thousand dollars
to Pro you know to to to get these
clients yep uh no sir we can't you know
like get a benchmark to explain with
data okay you know the costs of leads in
our Market you know you have this
research you don't have to invent the
will it's a it's very basic it's
like mostly most cases you're you are
entering a company that probably have
many competitors you know to to create
something something exclusively unique
it's not even a smart move it doesn't it
usually means if it's too unique and
nobody thought about that it means that
maybe people don't need it so you
probably have the competitors you know
do your research understand like the
benchmarks uh don't get limited to The
Benchmark of Mark of course but like put
this to perspective into data and and do
your math you know you can do your math
correctly on how much will cost to get
the leads and how much is the conversion
and after the first month or two you
have a better understanding of your own
metrics and you can present a better
plan with data but don't set down for
fear you know like uh your CEO wants
something now you have to
you know you have to to pretend do you
this is possible just it's it's not it's
going to be a frustrating road if you if
you fool yourself you know just it's
it's very simple data is beautiful
because you don't have to kill yourself
to to prove guts you know you have you
have numbers so
that's that's the first thing I would I
would recommend do your math right put
your kpis into alignment
um and yeah cool so
few points there to dive into so first
and foremost you said um set up your CRM
make sure you're tracking your things in
terms of data so we are we saying things
like website traffic website session
times page views conversion rates as
well as like you mentioned pixels
through your ads make sure basically
your website analytics are all set up so
you can understand kind of what ads are
linking through to your site and all
these bits and pieces
cool
um and with that we moved on to
communication and expectations in terms
of budget
what we can do and product capabilities
and product capabilities okay yes so
what we could do what I sometimes like
to do with guest Giovanna if you're up
for it is do a scenario so use this that
we've talked about and basically say
maybe we've got a 20K a month spend how
we're going to split it if you're up for
that
I can try yeah yeah I mean we can get it
we'll get into that in a sec but we'll
bear that in mind yeah so in terms of
that because that's always a tricky one
right because CEOs Founders the sales
team they're going to want essentially
they're going to want marketing to
generate as many sales qualified leads
demo requests whatever that main inbound
hand-raising uh point of view is they're
going to want as many as possible so how
how do you manage those expectations so
say for example CEO says look you've got
20 grand a month and I want I don't know
200 demo requests
um and you just say not sure about that
and then how do you say expectations how
do you have that conversation that's
where I say the communication comes in
hand because it's like what are those
numbers like
hmm let me see this is this is what I
want it's like it's it's not it's not
your wishes uh it's it's about it's
about understanding the market if you
are so far out of uh marketing you know
you hire the person that knows and
trusts this person to tell you so you
know I'm not saying that uh you should
you should be this this stubborn person
that knows that she's right and then
just listen to me because I'm going to
tell you no like you have data you have
research to show them to present to them
like this this is The Benchmark if we
are above you know show different
scenarios you know for us to be above
average for us to be below average for
us to be average these are the the the
probabilities of success this is how
much we can do with the money according
to the to the uh Benchmark this is what
we can do
um to generate this and this and that
and again communication is important not
just because
um you align expectations but also it's
it's good to for you to protect yourself
from uh uh falsely a false expectations
to to protect yourself to you know avoid
this well but I thought this is what we
wanted no no no no we communicate we
have everything written we have
everything like in the paper this is
what you know these are the kpis these
are the things we want
um and also one of the things to align
and I think it's very important in the
beginning is to understand
um you know what's more important for
you for your company if it's your brand
or if it's the if it's the demand
generation or if it's like the product
marketing or if it's the you know the
the the leads generation and the and the
um active active marketing so I've been
into the situation before where
um I was put in the same position as a a
director of the main generation and a
director of uh product marketing and we
would have to decide amongst ourselves
what would be like done first okay and
it's it's totally possible by the way to
have both of them as
um as as important for your uh for your
company but you have to understand that
if they're both working
um you know in parallel there will be
other limitations into like money it's
going to be extremely expensive to have
both of them like working in same you
know in the same proportion and is going
to be much more slow for for example
marketing to demand uh to generate
demand so it's again it's aligned
expectations okay you want both things
but you're going to spend a lot of money
and a lot of time can you afford that
okay if you can't so choose a priority
because it's two different departments
it's completely different work uh um you
know brand and demand it's very you know
of course they are online but they're
completely different one is completely
mathematic ago the other one involves a
lot of things including sales including
product you know just
align expectations is the best thing you
can do to protect yourself in your
career
yeah it makes sense right
um I guess in this situation we're going
to push for Max demo requests for our
tech company as we've got quite a strict
budget so I'm not sure 20 if 20 grand a
month is going to suit a full-blown
demand creation campaign
um and for our example I'm going to say
that we've actually got where the sector
itself let's say is mature so it's
established the sector we're in so there
is existing demand to capture
um but we'll get into that in a sec now
you mentioned you can leverage data to
when you're speaking to the c-suite when
you're speaking to the founder and
you're trying to reason with them about
the amount of actual results the amount
of demo requests or whatever we're going
for is going to be generated here what
are some ways that are effective to
actually grab that data so if you have
yeah I have something something funny to
say
um prior to that sure that I think
marketing is maybe the only I I'm not
sure you know if um if somebody knows
differently please let me know but I
think marketing is one of the only uh
career path that you actually introduce
data you show one plus one equals two
and you still hear
but I don't think so like this is this
is classic you know
um it takes a long time to gain
um Authority in the subject but once you
have such um
once you have which takes time but once
you have uh there are many ways you can
do that okay like uh if you have a
presentation to do
um you can you're saying we established
okay we have we have some comparison
between uh um months
um and you can you can always you can do
this in a simple
um in a simple
spreadsheet many people think that they
are data oriented okay and that's that's
a tricky thing because they think they
are data oriented and then you show them
numbers and they get completely confused
so what I always do is I present two
different things I present story
um and I present numbers because if you
are one or another you're going to pay
attention in the one that it's more
related to you so this is like um it
takes a little bit more time but it's
one of the things to keep it in the safe
side you again I um I'm not the I
usually don't say
a lot about benchmarks because many many
CEOs that I met in the past they're like
you know they have this concept of like
oh but we are not in a benchmark we're
much better than the Benchmark like why
are we comparing ourselves to others
like this is the job you know we have to
compare we have to understand the
competitors this is part of the work of
marketing we have to do this type of
research to understand where do we stand
okay to understand that
um what do we offer differently than the
competitors and is this a motive for
them to buy so if so let's test this
test this in the in the message okay
what message is more important I mean
that the message that converts the more
the most is the one that shows the
differentiator or the one that says the
same thing as the others but differently
in our brand in our 40 our this and this
is where data comes handy it doesn't
matter your opinion I'm testing I
usually don't discuss with anyone's like
okay you think this is going to work I
am going to do this it's going to cost
you more even though I probably know the
answer
but I usually don't say 100 okay you
really really want to insist on that I
don't fight with anyone come I'm taking
and I'm a b testing
show the results did you see you lose
did you see you were wrong can you
understand can I do my job now and then
you move forward
um again and sometimes you show still
you saw you see that you lose and you
still like yeah but I don't agree with
it you're going to hear that a lot sure
sure what's the um and was that in terms
of kind of telling a story is that what
you just explained there or is that a
bit different because you mentioned you
can kind of go with data with pure
numbers or you can kind of build a story
around it
yeah I mean this is uh this is a complex
subject because sure you know
um you can I'm a Storyteller by Nature
so for me it's very it comes
hand in hand
um you know if I see a number I I try to
explain why this happens and this is a
way to tell a story
um people are more engaged to emotions
than with reality okay it doesn't matter
it doesn't matter if the emotions are
real or not uh you you have more chances
to capture them if if you have uh
emotional triggers and this works not
only when you are advertising things
this works also when you're
communicating with your uh c-suite so
it's like
tell tell a story of this of the wise
that this happens I mean when I'm
telling a story I learned something with
the with a VP of mine from the past
always starts with the why right
starts with always starts with the Y and
then goes you move to the to the how and
then you move to the white if you have
those if you can explain numbers within
these questions
you have the stored
a story that people understand because
you have a structure to the story
okay that's my rule of thumb for for
storytelling and data yeah yeah yeah I
like it so
that's all fine and well in terms of
presenting the data if we've if we're if
we're a company and we're already doing
marketing and we'd like you say people
are raising suggestions and we're
running a b tests we're testing things
out we're proving Concepts or not
if we are this startup company and we
haven't done anything yet but you
mentioned earlier we can grab data from
maybe competitors we can check out what
they're doing what are some ways that
let's say that we've got some marketers
tuning in that perhaps in a similar
scenario how can they actually
effectively steal that data to their
benefit so they can then present to
c-suite Founders whoever they report to
on this is what other companies are
doing this is a rough idea of I don't
know what LinkedIn ads results they're
getting right now what Google ads
results they're getting
other marketing efforts Etc like how do
they grab that and how do they utilize
it
that's a great question because I have I
have my routine
um I think it works very well but
probably many other Market marketers
they have their own
um but I do certain a certain kind of uh
um brand book
uh that it's like it sounds a little bit
old-fashioned but the way I do it is
um you you you build up your brand with
your tone and your voice and the things
that you want to change in the things
that you want to do and your product
capabilities and you build up that decks
of
um US versus competitors well we have
similar what we have different and we
merge with companies that we admire that
doesn't mean that they are competitors
like other companies
um you know for example I admire very
much a company called lemonade and I
love their brand they are not even a B2B
company they're a b2c company and I
always use them in example of
stunning marketing and other companies
as well so we try to merge things that
we admire with things that that you know
that we know our competitors are doing
and fit that into the tone that we just
created the tone that we decided that
this is going to be our way of of saying
you know when you're building a Persona
and you give them characteristics and
you give them like you know you go a
little bit creative and to who is this
person where does she work what's her
routine do the same thing with your
company treat your company as a Persona
you know give it characteristics you
know actors do that all the time when
they receive a character they build
their background the way they talk they
the way they walk uh things that happen
in their past you know for example when
I was building fantastic uh tone of
voice and so like we are we're like a
whiskey of the of the companies you know
we're we're we are the the James Bond of
of you know uh B2B for financial teams
and that gives you a certain
understanding of okay we're
sophisticated we we don't talk in slangs
we are more you know we're cool but we
are not child
so this gives you
um human understanding of how your
company portrays itself so after you
have this you know it's easier to create
content it's easier to to create
templates templates for your content so
I suggest you know if if you don't have
a clue do like this but ask your
marketers marketeers friends because I'm
sure each one of us have a quirky way of
you know building this
sure cool all right some nice references
there so we've talked a lot about
planning reviewing data analysis
once we have all this data and we've got
buy-in from the rest of our team how are
we putting this into play are we going
to market now is that the next step are
we deciding what spend goes against
which advertising Channel organic
Channel whatever it may be or is there
something else that happens next
well there are a few I think uh
rules that people usually say is 60 for
advertising 40 to test I saw companies
they extremely that achieved extreme
success by doing differently
um you know like monday.com if I'm not
mistaken they spend 70 percent in
testing and 30 percent into into actuals
and that blew my mind because it's such
a risky number uh but they were so sure
on because you know after 70 of your
money being spent into understanding
your audience so you have a pretty clear
data on what your audience wants so this
30 percent was spent so well that the
conversion rate
uh from you know leads to leads to
customers was one of the highest ever
seen so far so I think you know it took
them a lot they were bold but it's a
company evaluated in seven billion
dollars so I think it worked
um so I I always recommend to do this
separate your money your budget between
testing and actuals
don't skip testing don't be afraid of
losing money like and I'm putting this
in quotes Okay losing money on testings
because this is part of the job this is
part of of understanding uh things that
your competitors do didn't understand
that your uh CEO maybe didn't see so it
it requires it requires a lot of
self-esteem to understand that half of
your job or at least 40 percent of your
job is testing meaning it's maybe being
wrong but if you understand that you
don't have problem in in you know
risking it
yeah yeah I suppose it depends on like
the amount that you can allocate to
testing whether it is internal team
members on the marketing department or
that is physical budget that you're
maybe spending with another agency
whatever depends on like the amount of
funding your company has if you're
bootstrapped how tight you are for cash
and a bunch of other things around
resources and and spend so it's going to
vary I guess the amount that you can
actually throw into testing as opposed
to correction but you do have to spend
spend some amount into testing and I I
wouldn't trust any Market any of my
criteria that wouldn't you know this is
this is fundamental part of your job
yeah well let's let's go back to that
scenario let's go back to our 20K a
month
um
how would you like we said we're B2B
Tech startup we're in a we're in a
category that's mature so the category
has some kind of demand but we're a
fresh startup so in that scenario
um just as a rough idea I mean what what
would we throw into testing what would
we throw roughly into messaging and
other channels or how would we do we
Chuck money straight away into different
channels or do we evolve our messaging
based on what we've learned or what do
we have any any team like internal team
yeah why not let's say let's say we've
got I don't know a three-person
marketing department so maybe we've got
I don't know 50 or so staff altogether
we've got a three person marketing do we
have any data from the past
let's say we've we've done what you've
suggested so we are new but we've done
some competitor analysis
um we've looked into all those things we
haven't done anything yet ourselves so
we are a marketing team with three
people without internal data that stuff
who's this CEO let me talk to no I'm
kidding
um Let me let me see because uh yes if
we have zero data uh and the competitor
shows
um you know for example usually from B2B
this is what the competitor is going to
to show
um our competitors spend most of their
money into LinkedIn ads into Google ads
uh I would go for that
um
and I I would use the competitive
advantage of the differential of our
product and understanding like what are
the keywords that they use what are the
what are the paid uh um you know paid
advertising that they're doing and what
what are they offering when they're
doing that and I would play with the
with the differentiator I would collect
data and see like okay we can achieve
this amount of of leads from this
Channel and that channel but I wouldn't
pause it right away even though if it
wasn't successful I wouldn't pause it
right away because
in B2B usually you have a a long sale
Circle so
um you know
I I've seen B2B with like three to six
months
um of sale
so you you will need to understand okay
maybe you get x amount from x amount of
leads or sqls from um you know that that
convert to SQL from Google but from that
uh the percentage that converts to two
clients to customers to one is much
smaller than the the proportional
conversion from another channel for
instance LinkedIn that brings you tons
of leads and it doesn't convert
correctly to sqls and it doesn't convert
to to
um to one so give it time with this
money because sometimes I think this is
the most common mistake something is not
working you take it off right away
um if your competitors are doing if the
market is doing
um
so there is maybe a reason for that so
give it a chance
um but this comes also from experience
you know I've I've been you know in
companies that I spent
some money to understand if it would
work to have Facebook ads and Instagram
ads for B2B and YouTube and you know
it's it's not Fest it's it's very top of
the funnel it's very difficult to with
with a little money to to get relevant
uh leads from
from less focused channels
and in the beginning I wouldn't
recommend because this is very good for
your brand aware awareness this is very
good you know if you have a set of again
your tracking is going to help you with
that your understanding is going to
helping with that but it's very good for
remarketing it's very good for you know
building lists of look-alikes and things
like that that in the beginning you
won't have also you know you have to
understand that sometimes we have this
perspective of
um we know who the Persona is for sure
and when you come it comes to the you
know to the reality you see that one of
the personas you thought you had it's
not the one and the message that you
thought you you would be like the bomb
is not so this is all very important in
the beginning and if you have a more
focused uh um advertising meaning yes
LinkedIn ads yes Google ads you know
um email marketing by the way that many
people neglect and I think it's a great
way to get uh demos
um if you don't have something for
outbound sales
no email marketing I mean it you can do
a um a mesh you can do like a mix of
both of them you know like
um
but I am very believer in email
marketing I I love nurturing people I
love giving them like uh things to read
things to do things to to register and
you know create this little relationship
and then boom you send them you know
sales
you go and you go and you outbound the
hell out of them
okay some some points to to go dive into
a bit deeper there so
if we're you mentioned some Fair points
so if if we're B2B if we got a high
ticket product like you say it's not
going to be a click your fingers and the
deals one it's going to be a a long
sales cycle especially if our ads are
trying to appeal to the top of the sales
funnel they might need some nurturing
over the time
um they might be speaking to sales for
some time so it's it's something that
might take three six months or longer
depending on our typical cell cycle the
value of our product and so on now what
things a couple questions of this what
things are we looking for so when it
comes to the testing side of things what
things should we be looking into I.E are
we looking into the messaging and the
problems we're talking about to our
audience that we fix are we looking into
if we're putting out media like I don't
know the videos or the graphics whatever
if we're doing Google ads I don't know
the keywords we're targeting the ad copy
and likewise landing pages and off the
back of that what's a fair timeline
because we've got to remember we're a
startup we've got limited cash we're
probably under a lot pressure from the
people that we report to saying where
the hell there's a leads like why a demo
request not in yet so what kind of
timeline is fair to give it so I guess
there's two points to that kind of what
are we looking to assess and measure and
tweak and optimize and then likewise
secondly what timelines are fair
right this is a very complicated
question because as Mo I want to be
positive when answering that but it's
it's very simple to me if you don't have
much budget it will take longer right
that's that's something it's very hard
to to go around that okay because
ads for B2B they are expensive
and you know organic takes time so it's
it's again it's something that to
protect yourself understand understand
your limitations
um the second thing is I think it's it's
even more important
um
when when new and it goes back to you
know I I like to say something I think
is the best
um
the best thing I can ever like the best
advice that I can give okay it's uh make
transparent transparency your biggest
Ally
um when when you're building a brand
it's it's the same thing
let's say you were building you were
building your house you know uh nobody
would come to you and say like yeah can
you build my house in three days
you can say yes okay uh give me money to
hire the best people and to buy
everything I can and you know people do
that in those crazy reality shows but
what's the budget for building this
house and then you can Define the
timeline
um I don't like to I don't like to to
conclude a timeline before we have a
whole circle okay uh it's it's very
it's very
it's just half a story that's what I'm
trying to say if you say to me like okay
we have you know three months to
understand if spending this 20K per
month which is 60 you know uh it's going
to to define the rest of our year dude I
mean with all the respect you know um
that's not how it works it's simply not
how it works I can prove it to you I can
you give me a month and I prove to you
this is what we get in a month let's
multiply that by optimizing okay we want
to grow but we cannot grow with the same
amount of money with the same amount of
expertise from 20 to 40. okay we can't
you know it's just it's pure math so
again make transparency your biggest
life because it's very hard to tell your
manager your boss your CEO
what you want it's not what you want
with what you have
it's not what we're gonna get and I
think after that everything gets easier
but just to to conclude the a b testing
things for example and I'll give you a
personal example because I think it's
very interesting
um a few like a while ago uh we were
doing I think everything was a sales
emails I got outbounds and
like the the the whole team the product
the the sales the bees Dev everybody
they were like you know we work with um
fpnas and CFOs fpnas Financial Planning
and Analysis which is like Finance teams
and everybody was like
um we have to send a very technical
email they're technical people they are
they know numbers they know this they
don't and I'm like
what but are you sure like are you I'm
100 sure can we find other emails from
our competitors we weren't able to do
that
like listen you know let's say
no we're gonna you know we're gonna
waste a chance we know this how do you
know the answer you know like how did
have you done this before no but we know
it's like so you don't know let me do it
and let me test it and the the A B test
was like the same message but one with
the most a more emotional content and
the other one with more technical
content both would involve involve uh
product capabilities and what we offer
but like one had a much more you know uh
marketing language than a sales language
of course the one with emotional content
was the one who was the winner the one
that everybody was against because it
doesn't matter how you know uh um how
mathematical you are you're still a
human being you still fall for the same
marketing BS that I throw you I'm sorry
like you know you your mind
is very conditionated to to to go for
the emotional you might have you might
be a physicist or a mathematic
mathematician but you still watch movies
you still watch Netflix you still you
know uh um play video games all of these
are storytelling so it doesn't matter
you're gonna receive an email that has
like letters on it you're going to go
for the emotional
um so you know this these things are
very important it's like proving
everybody wrong with like
some some humor okay don't make anybody
mad but like come on you know trust
trust your expertise yeah yeah I mean
it's like that I was saying right people
buy emotionally and then justify it of
logic
yeah I mean I I have like this this uh
saying that actually people buy three
things uh they buy Comfort status and
time like they don't buy anything else
so just make your product sound or you
know um not sound because sound would
would uh impose that it's not a real
product but finding your product where
you're selling time comfort and Status
lesson B2B you don't need status so much
because status is Authority so this is
just in brand building but finding your
product where you're selling time and
where you're selling comfort and that's
it
that's a great tip that's a pro tip Okay
cool so we've covered quite a bit
Giovanna we've gone through kind of
building business cases we've gone
through analyzing we've gone through
planning we've gone to eventually going
to Market and testing out ad campaigns
now how do we ongoing what I like the
considerations we've talked about kind
of ramping up going to Market early
stage getting ads getting marketing out
the door
um what should we be considering as an
on an ongoing basis now we're rocking
and rolling I suppose that the leads are
starting to come in the demos are
starting to come in what are we
monitoring and what are we looking out
for
I think uh one of the things that is
important for me to you know um justify
and defend marketing and sales people is
we we didn't discuss timing okay like
it's important
um you know we know for for a fact that
Q Q4 are usually the ones you know
people are either desperate to buy
because they have budget and it's going
to that is going to be like uh renewed
next year that they cannot use
or they're doing you know next year uh
kpis and goals Etc and you have the
solution for these kpis or is the
beginning of the year that everybody
gets like budget and they didn't spend
anything yet so like give it give them
something with a good proposal and they
have the money so they're gonna buy it
um and then you have like you know the
very hard period which is like July and
such
because you know I have the vacations in
United States and you have like uh it's
the middle of everything so everybody's
running with reports and it's always
complicated so I think this is one of
the things that I I would like to say
that
um that I didn't say before that you
know when you're considering data you
also have to consider it time
um
so
what was your question again
it's a good point you basically it
sounds like you're saying um you've got
to consider the time of year for your
market and what's going on with them if
there's summer vacations and if there's
an impact in the market that you're
targeting and things like that so I I
think that's the point you're making
right before I go back into my question
yeah yeah okay it is it's just just
because I wanted to clear that
yeah
it got in the back of my mind I'd do the
same you have to talk yeah when I go on
podcasts I do exactly the same I ramble
on for ages and I forget I was like what
was the question again anyway
that's me in a nutshell by the way
that's I'm answering something like wait
what did you ask I don't even remember I
can relate I do the same no
uh the the question was like we
basically summarized kind of the initial
things with somebody's going to Market
how what what should we consider from an
ongoing perspective so let's say things
are starting to work we're starting to
get ourselves Derma requests things look
like they're on the uptick we've perhaps
tested a few channels we've got some
results
now what do we do like what are we
monitoring what are we looking out for
what what is the ongoing process after
the first three four five six months of
testing and proving concept that's a
great question because and I remember
now why I started talking about timing
because I think
um
for example marketing and sales you know
that they work together and and they
they have to be aligned and uh if there
is a boom in timing for example Q4 and
q1 yeah and you have like a rest into
into you know July middle year I I
always remember my mom when uh she she
had like a few business
um
um that only worked in the summer just
she she used to work with she she had
like a bed and breakfast and she had
like a kiosk in the beach in in very uh
tropical countries and she would make a
lot of money in the summer a lot of
money and then absolutely zero another
uh Seasons so yeah so she would have to
balance this this you know money as a
salary uh through the year and it's the
same thing uh when we talk uh Marketing
in sales there is a a an amount of leads
coming up and Q4 q1 and you have to
balance this through the you know to the
um middle of the year into the end of
the year again when it comes back so the
ongoing uh the ongoing job is to balance
this um
this graphic so the graphs would be like
you know without so much ups and downs
when it comes to the other parts of the
funnel so you fill up the the top of the
funnel when the timing is good and then
you work uh funnel down with the sales
the other thing you know because it
worked that their time is times that
works better uh things that work better
and on Q4 and q1 so let's try to work
um the other things for example uh
outbound and
um
um you know more personal connections
Partnerships into into the rest of the
year that is not so fulfilled as the as
the last quarter and first quarter so
balancing the you know balancing the the
type of work you put into marketing and
sales efforts during the year this is an
ongoing job
let me play Devil's Advocate again
before we wrap up please so I'm
like right now for example the points
you've raised are very valid like a lot
of markets are seasonal and the fact is
if your decision makers that buy your
stuff are on holiday you're not going to
sell them
um unless the odd one that's working
away whilst on holiday maybe they'll buy
but that's few and far apart and so if
yeah seasons are going to affect things
and you made some good recommendations
about leveraging Channel Partnerships
and various other things so you're not
your cells aren't falling flat during
those times but
I I suppose it's because we're in a
market that's like for example with us
websites and SEO you're usually in
demand quite a lot quite year round and
a lot of people still say to me like
because what's going on with the UK
right now like the pound's crashing a
prime ministers just resigned there's
loads there's terrible things going on
the market I mean I try to avoid
watching the news like is it just
depressing oh yes I just don't watch or
listen to it I ignore it I'd rather
listen to podcasts that are useful and
gonna help me but that's another topic
I'd address good team yeah
but with that said can we not just power
through like this might just be my small
mind but can we not just power through
these recessions
um and can we not just ramp up other
other angles of our business to overcome
them or do we just need to face that
certain times of year business is going
to be tougher because stuff's going on
uh definitely you don't have a small
mind uh if somebody has a small mind is
me because I'm very set in my ways in a
way it's like um I do think that people
play differently
um I I do I am a little bit more
conservative with uh with time and money
than I am with like my personal life
um I work wise I'm very I like to play
safe I do you know a few things
occasionally that are like wow
um you know I I do think that if you
don't risk you you're you know you're
not in a good
um
um part of the war you know part of the
fight I think you should risk
um but as a person who plays save I
it's it's not about not powering through
uh Necessities or not powering through
uh harsh moments is if you have because
you know you you know ahead that there
are months better than the others
um so you you kind of plan according to
you know you know that this is a little
bit lower so let's let's again align the
kpis so also your team is not going to
be frustrated on like oh my God what did
I do wrong if it was working you know in
the past and it's not working right now
is it my fault and I try to avoid first
of all I try to avoid this word at all
like fall is something that I don't
think it fits
work environment but you know to to
understand it like to if you want to
change something you might frustrate
people not everybody is you know um
takes work personally you know like I do
for example I'm like I'm very goal
motivated and I'm like go-getter but I
do understand my teams sometimes they
are like uh nine to five kind of workers
and that's also okay you know you have
to understand the limitations of people
and that you don't want to frustrate
your team so be prepared ahead
um I have like you know we've been
through crazy times lately so of course
if I didn't know how to power it through
I wouldn't have you know succeed for
example in in Corona times where I was
working at a company that now it's
evaluated in the two billion dollars and
it thrived during Corona because we were
one of the first ones to actually you
know invest in webinars before people
even consider that we did online events
we we went from and saying this right
now I was like yeah of course obvious
but back then people were so confused on
like what's going to happen in the two
months from now and you know we we we
thrived and I think this this is a
little bit of you know the the
leadership that you're going to okay
this is this is the road we're going so
let's do that I don't think seasoning
um seasoning is part of like the defeat
I think is just part of it you know like
because we know in advance so it's not
like it's it's not like uh a pandemia or
something it's just something you know
um but again uh my truth is not
Universal this is my way to to deal with
marketing uh I do admire other
marketeers that do vary different than
me and I don't think there is in in that
specific point I don't think there is a
right answer I do I play safe you know
mostly
because it's it's my it's my way but if
you don't it's also okay if you don't
and it works of course
go for it you know teach me something I
love it I love that yeah yeah ultimately
I just wanted to look at it from a
different point of view and like some of
this is mindset some of this is good
business sense like it's like planning
ahead realizing if if you can plan for
certain things and it just makes sense
to make sure that you've got systems in
place within your business to attack
that likewise because this is strategy
you know this is the way I know how to
play the game I I could learn how to
play differently and of course I would
love to
um that again doesn't mean that there is
there I'm not saying that this is the
right answer I'm just saying it's my
answer well yeah of course everyone
Everyone's entitled to what they do but
it sounds like you've done it very well
from what you've shared with us so far
so thank you sir with that Giovanna
let's let's wrap things up thanks very
much for for going through your your
strategy with us it's been a been a fun
session and I'm sure myself and everyone
tuning in has learned a fair bit so with
that please do tell us more about
everyone can connect with you learn from
you a bit more about your business and
what's the best way for people to get in
touch
awesome I mean uh you can you can get in
touch on my uh LinkedIn I have a free
mentorship program for people who uh
want to learn more about marketing uh
you do have to apply though it's not for
everybody but um if you if you pass it's
completely free uh and it it's free
without the catch okay without the catch
in the end that you have to pay for
something no it's just a mentorship
program for you know for you to to power
all of your powers
um to empower you and Etc uh I'm also uh
launching
um two books
um this and the next year
um but everything you you will know by
following me on my LinkedIn it's
Giovanna Ziegler and that's it
thanks very much shivana we shall put
those links over on the show notes at
businessgrowth.marketing and let us know
when the books are out and I'll
certainly help you promote those on
LinkedIn and such thank you no worries
thanks once again pleasure
you're very welcome so as always if you
enjoyed today's episode be sure to give
us a rating or review on your audio
podcast Channel or if you're on YouTube
a quick subscribe as always appreciated
with that catch you on the next episode
for more no BS actionable B2B marketing
tips to grow your business and most
importantly your Revenue catch you on
the next one